---
title: Input
description: Input is an extension to the standard input element with theming.
---

## Basic

The `Input` component is used for collecting user input. It supports various modes and customization options.

::preview{class="bg-stone-50 dark:bg-stone-950"}
<DemoInputBasic/>
::

```vue
<Input v-model="value"/>
```


The basic usage of the `Input` component involves binding a data property using the `v-model` directive. This directive automatically syncs the input value with the specified data property, allowing for two-way data binding.

## Mode

You can choose between three modes for the `Input` component using the `mode` prop:

- `Outlined` (default)
- `Filled`
- `Underlined`

::preview{class="bg-stone-50 dark:bg-stone-950"}
<DemoInputMode/>
::

```vue
<Input mode="outlined" v-model="value"/>

<Input mode="filled" v-model="value"/>

<Input mode="underlined" v-model="value"/>
```


The `mode` prop allows you to customize the appearance of the input field. The available modes are:
- `outlined`: Displays the input with an outline.
- `filled`: Displays the input with a filled background.
- `underlined`: Displays the input with an underline.

## Label

You can add a label to any `Input` component using the `label` prop:

::preview{class="bg-stone-50 dark:bg-stone-950"}
<DemoInputLabel/>
::

```vue
<Input label="Outlined Label" mode="outlined" v-model="value"/>

<Input label="Filled Label" mode="filled" v-model="value"/>

<Input label="Underlined Label" mode="underlined" v-model="value"/>
```

The `label` prop allows you to add a descriptive label to the input field, making it easier for users to understand what information is required.

## Label Modes

The label can be displayed in five different modes using the `labelMode` prop:

- `offsetDynamic` (default)
- `offsetStatic`
- `dynamic`
- `static`
- `vanishing`

::preview{class="bg-stone-50 dark:bg-stone-950"}
<DemoInputLabelMode></DemoInputLabelMode>
::

```vue
<Input label="Offset Dynamic" labelMode="offsetDynamic" v-model="value"/>

<Input label="Offset Static" labelMode="offsetStatic" v-model="value"/>

<Input label="Dynamic" labelMode="dynamic" v-model="value"/>

<Input label="Static" labelMode="static" v-model="value"/>

<Input label="Vanishing" labelMode="vanishing" v-model="value"/>
```

The `labelMode` prop offers different ways to display the label:
- `offsetDynamic`: The label moves dynamically based on the input state.
- `offsetStatic`: The label remains offset and static.
- `dynamic`: The label dynamically appears/disappears based on the input state.
- `static`: The label is always visible and static.
- `vanishing`: The label vanishes when the input is focused.

## Additional Content

You can place icons or text at the beginning or end of an `Input` field using slots:

::preview{class="bg-stone-50 dark:bg-stone-950"}
<DemoInputContent/>
::

```vue
<Input label="Username" v-model="value">
    <template #before>
      <Icons type="user-circle"/>
    </template>
</Input>
<Input label="Price" v-model="value">
    <template #after>
      USD
      <Icons type="circle-stack"/>
    </template>
</Input>
<Input label="Nickname" labelMode="vanishing" v-model="value">
    <template #before>
      <Icons type="ri:vk-fill"/>
      https://vk.com/
    </template>
    <template #after>
      .com
    </template>
</Input>
```

The `before` and `after` slots allow you to add custom content before or after the input field. This is useful for adding icons, currency symbols, or additional text.

## Additional Options

You can enhance the `Input` component with various attributes:

- `autocomplete`: Disable or enable autocomplete.
- `placeholder`: Display a hint for the expected input.
- `clear`: Show a clear icon when text is entered.
- `help`: Add a helper text below the input.
- `required`: Mark the field as mandatory.

::preview{class="bg-stone-50 dark:bg-stone-950"}
<DemoInputOptions/>
::

```vue
<Input label="Autocomplete Off" autocomplete="off" v-model="value"/>
<Input label="Placeholder Example" placeholder="Enter text here..." v-model="value"/>
<Input label="Clearable" clear v-model="value"/>
<Input label="Help Text" help="Additional instructions go here." v-model="value"/>
<Input label="Required Field" required v-model="value"/>
```

These additional options allow you to customize the behavior and appearance of the input field:
- `autocomplete`: Controls the browser's autocomplete feature.
- `placeholder`: Provides a hint for the expected input.
- `clear`: Adds a clear icon to the input field.
- `help`: Adds helper text below the input field.
- `required`: Marks the input field as required.

## Masks

You can apply input masks for special formats:

- **number**: Numeric input
- **price**: Financial input
- **phone**: Phone number input

::preview{class="bg-stone-50 dark:bg-stone-950"}
<DemoInputMask></DemoInputMask>
::

```vue
<Input label="Number" mask="number" v-model="value"/>
<Input label="Price" mask="price" lengthInteger="7" lengthDecimal="2" v-model="value"/>
<Input label="Phone" mask="phone" v-model="value"/>
```

Input masks restrict the format of the input value. The `mask` prop allows you to specify the type of input format, such as:
- `number`: Restricts input to numeric values.
- `price`: Restricts input to financial values with integer and decimal parts.
- `phone`: Restricts input to phone number format.

## Customization

You can further customize the `Input` appearance with the `classInput` prop:

::preview{class="bg-stone-50 dark:bg-stone-950"}
<DemoInputCustomization/>
::

```vue
<Input label="Custom Style" classInput="!text-theme-700 dark:!text-theme-300" v-model="value"/>
```

The `classInput` prop allows you to apply custom CSS classes to the input element, enabling you to style it according to your design requirements.