---
name: Nuxt
title: Install FishtVue with Nuxt
description: Setting up FishtVue in a Nuxt project.
---

## Download

FishtVue is available for download on npm registry. The Nuxt module is included in the main package.

::code-group
```npm [npm]
npm install fishtvue
```
```yarn [yarn]
yarn add fishtvue
```
```pnpm [pnpm]
pnpm add fishtvue
```
::

## Module Configuration

In the `nuxt.config` file, add the `fishtvue/module` to the modules section and define the fishtvue object for the configuration of the module.

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
    modules: [
        'fishtvue/module'
    ],
    fishtvue: {
        /* Configuration */
    }
})
```

## Theme

Configure the module to use a theme like `Aura`.

```ts
import Aura from '@fishtvue/themes/aura';

export default defineNuxtConfig({
    modules: [
        'fishtvue/module'
    ],
    fishtvue: {
        options: {
            theme: {
                preset: Aura
            }
        }
    }
})
```

## Verify

The `fishtvue/module` module registers the components automatically with tree-shaking support so you may start using them instantly.

```vue
<Button label="Verify" />
```

## Configuration

### global

Determines whether components will be available globally.

```ts
fishtvue: {
    global: true | false
}
```

### mode

Specifies the mode of component operation (client/server/all).

```ts
fishtvue: {
    mode: 'client' | 'server' | 'all'
}
```

### prefix

Prefix for auto-imported components.

```ts
fishtvue: {
    prefix: 'Fisht'
}
```

### autoImport

Enable automatic component imports. Defaults to true.

```ts
fishtvue: {
    autoImport: true | false
}
```

### disableGlobalStyles

Disable global styles. Defaults to false.

```ts
fishtvue: {
    disableGlobalStyles: true | false
}
```

[//]: # (## Examples)

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (Nuxt-based samples with different options are available at FishtVue examples repository.)

## Next Steps

Welcome to the FishtVue Ecosystem! Once you have FishtVue up and running, we recommend exploring the following resources to gain a deeper understanding of the library.

::card{to="/configuration/options" icon="solar:settings-bold" title="Global configuration"}
Learn about the global configuration options for **FishtVue**.
::

<br/>

::card{to="/configuration/theming#architecture" icon="ic:outline-palette" title="Customization of styles"}
Choose from a variety of pre-styled themes or develop your own in **FishtVue**.
::